hi guys I'm edley today we're going to
discuss cutting the crap and focusing on
the three Facebook ad matrics that
actually matter are you advertising on
Facebook or looking to get started then
you're probably staring at a wall of AD
performance numbers uh so let's cut
through the noise in this video I'll
show you the three metrics that matter
the most but first here's a really quick
rundown of the Facebook ad metrics so
firstly we have Impressions this is
literally how many times someone sees
your ad Reach This is the unique
Impressions hence that will be lower
than your total Impressions next is
social Impressions that are add
Impressions that include social context
by that I mean if you target friends of
people who like your page then those
people will see their friend's name in
the advert now depending on what you do
and sell this can trigger heightened
engagement uh but it certainly won't
work for all markets and industries next
we have frequency this is how many times
a person on average has seen your advert
and cost of course should go about
saying your total spend for this period
clicks all is the total number of clicks
on your ad so these could be likes
shares link clicks uh or mere clicks on
the actual advert itself there's also uh
click through eight uh CTR which is
split between all and Link so Facebook
has a uh CTR all CTR link there's an
important difference here if your goal
is to get engagement then the all
measurement uh for CTR is is relevant if
you're looking for link clicks then
ignore the CTR all as it's uh it's going
to overread and skew what you're
actually gunning for then CPC or cost
per click is how much you spend per
interaction with your ad uh again this
might not be a link click sometimes
people just like your ad and move on I
don't know why but they do uh there's
also uh a CPC measurement for link
clicks which is probably more useful to
be honest CPM which is cost per me is
your cost per 1,000 add Impressions so
link clicks is next and that represents
the total clicks that take people off
Facebook and then there's engagement
metrics which again these are pretty
self-explanatory so they come in the
form of post likes comments and shares
in the addition you will get page likes
off the back of ads which you can
measure too here uh in your in your
Facebook ad manager now people taking
action is the number of unique actions
per person so for example a single
person liking a post and clicking the
link is considered one person taking
action and finally relevancy a simple
metric it's a bit like the Google
AdWords quality score uh that signifies
from 1 to 10 how engaged your audiences
with your ad now it might be last on
this list of metrics but it's important
to remember an above average relevancy
score directly correlates to spending
Less on ads so consider that when
Facebook ads has to decide which ad to
display to a specific user the algorithm
will have a preference to the more
relevant ad being shown first if that ad
isn't yours it quickly becomes more
expensive to advertise and this this
effect unfortunately snowballs over time
so relevance is the most important
metric then well actually no let me
explain you said a goal for your ad so
let's say you want to capture a lead for
your offer you're an online retailer you
will hopefully know your conversion rate
and therefore how much that lead is
worth to your business therefore you can
calculate C your CPA your cost per
acquisition so it doesn't matter if you
spend $100 or 10,000 if your ad delivers
leads for or less than your target CPA
then you're winning so that's in an
ideal world but there are two other
priority metrics I'd use to hone and
fine-tune your ads and these are
click-through rate and frequency so
firstly why CTR why clickthrough rate
because clickthrough rate tells you how
well your ad is performing and how many
people care to click so consider that
under 2% click-through is poor
particularly 1% or less which is
diabolical if you got a clickthrough
rate of 1% or less you need to change
your ad your copy or probably the the
audience you're targeting so therefore
if 2% is considered average it's okay I
mean if it's falling within your cost
parameters then it's okay but you should
really be aiming for three to four % or
more uh and to be honest if you start
hitting 5 to 10% and Beyond you know
your message to your audience match is
really strong that in turn will drive
down your cost per click and engagement
over time so clickthrough rate really is
important and frequency which I
mentioned earlier this is the third
important metric so frequency is the
gauge for understanding if you're about
to burn your Bridges and piss people off
for that simple reason it's a really
good performance metric so if your
frequency is under five which which
means on average people have seen your
ad five times then you're in the safe
Zone you're still in the friend zone so
a frequency of sort of five to 10 is
acceptable but less than optimal and
will typically mean your click-through
rate drops with time over 10 on the
frequency metric and you're in the
danger zone uh you're starting to hit
saturation which isn't attractive to
people they potentially will tune out or
Worse Mark your ads as as junk and
you'll be lost to them forever well on
Facebook at least which is 1.6 billion
potential people that's significant so
cutting through all the noise the three
critical metrics that I pay attention to
is cost per acquisition your CPA your
clickthrough rate your CTR and the
frequency that people see your ads
that's been really helpful if you have
any questions please leave them in in
the comments below and keep an eye out
for my next video which is uh discussing
Facebook ad audiences cheers